Add Performance Metrics and Performance Tab (#1665)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/performance/performance-metrics.md

---
title: 'Performance Metrics'
sidebar_order: 2
---

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics provide a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance, Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Author: Still working on this. Trying to make it concise.

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics provide a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance, Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Author: How about:
Performance Metrics provides insight into how long it takes users to load experiences in your application.

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics provide a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance, Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Author: The repetition of the sound "in" is bugging me, but that's the best I've got right now. 😂

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics provide a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance, Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Reviewer: How about "Performance metrics provide insight about how users experience your application. You set the target thresholds, then identify how your application is performing. For example, you can track metrics such as Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance. By identifying useful thresholds by which to measure you application, you have a quantifiable measure of your application's health and can more easily identify when errors occur or if performance issues are emerging."

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics provide a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [Discover]({%- link _documentation/performance/discover/index.md -%}) or Performance, Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Author: 👍 Excellent. Thanks!

## Apdex
Apdex is an industry-standard metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on response times in your application. Your Apdex score is a measurement of the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint. This metric provides a standard for you to compare transaction performance, understand which ones may require additional optimization or investigation, and set targets or goals for performance.

- Below are the various components of Apdex and its formula:
    - T = Response time threshold for your target response time
    - Satisfactory = T
    - Tolerable = >T and ≤ 4*T
    - Frustrated = 4*T

>     - Apdex = (# of Satisfactory Requests + (# of Tolerable Requests/2)) / (# of Total Requests)

Reviewer 2: @MimiDumpling I think this could be revised in a better way.

- Let *T* be defined as the response time threshold for your target response time.
- Users are **satisfied** when using the app when their page load times are less than or equal to *T*.
- Users consider the app **tolerable** to use when their page load times are between *T* and *4T*.
- Users are **frustrated** with the app when their page load times are greater than *4T*.

>     - **Frustrated**: Users are frustrated with the app when their page load times are greater than T.

Reviewer: Frustrated seems quite negative. I think we'd prefer a range of satisfactory to unsatisfactory?

Reviewer 3: These terms are taken from the standard apdex formula: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apdex

Reviewer: Ok by me. I looked also at another site's definitions and they had avoided it, thus my query.

    
## Average Transaction Duration

> Average Transaction Duration indicates the average response time for all occurrences of a given transaction

Reviewer: missing period at the end of the sentence.

    
## P75 Threshold

> The P75 Threshold indicates that 25% of transaction durations are greater than the threshold. For example, if the P75 is ten milliseconds, then 25% of transactions took longer than ten milliseconds.

Reviewer: Perhaps rephrase to "For example, if the P75 threshold is set to 10 milliseconds, then 25% of transactions exceeded that threshold, taking longer than 10 milliseconds"

## P95 Threshold

> The P95 Threshold indicates that 5% of transaction durations are greater than the threshold. For example, if the P95 is 50 milliseconds, then 5% of transactions took longer than 50 milliseconds.

Reviewer: see previous edit, subbing the 95/5 threshold setting.

## P99 Threshold
The P99 Threshold indicates that 1% of transaction durations are greater than the threshold. For example, if the P99 is 5 seconds, then 1% of transactions took longer than 5 seconds.

## Throughput (Total, RPM, RPS)

> Throughput indicates the number of requests over a given time range (Total), most common requests per minute (RPM), or requests per second (RPS)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Throughput indicates the number of requests over a given time range (Total), requests per minute (RPM), or requests per second (RPS)
```

> The P99 Threshold indicates that 1% of transaction durations are greater than the threshold. For example, if the P99 is 5 seconds, then 1% of transactions took longer than 5 seconds.

Reviewer: see previous edit, using 99/1 threshold setting.

> Throughput indicates the number of requests over a given time range (Total), requests per minute (RPM), or requests per second (RPS)

Reviewer: missing period at the end of the sentence.

> ## User Misery

Reviewer: Are we publishing with this term? I had thought we were finding an alternate. It's sort ... negative? Perhaps better as "User Impact"? or "Impacted Users"?

Reviewer 3: We had this initially defined as User Impact but thought it wasn't descriptive enough. We've bounced between User Misery or User Frustration, but we've settled on User Misery for now.

Reviewer: 👍

> User Misery is a user-weighted performance metric to assess the relative magnitude of your application performance. While you can measure the ratio of various response time threshold levels with Apdex, Impact score adds the number of users impacted and volume so you can better highlight transactions that have the highest throughput of users affected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
User Misery is a user-weighted performance metric to assess the relative magnitude of your application performance. While you can measure the ratio of various response time threshold levels with Apdex, User Misery counts the number of unique users who were frustrated based on the specified response time threshold so you can better highlight transactions that have the highest impact on users.
```

> User Misery is a user-weighted performance metric to assess the relative magnitude of your application performance. While you can measure the ratio of various response time threshold levels with Apdex, User Misery counts the number of unique users who were frustrated based on the specified response time threshold. User Misery highlights transactions that have the highest impact on users.

Reviewer 3: @MimiDumpling this definition looks good to me! Thank you to whoever wrote it :)

---
title: 'Performance Metrics'
sidebar_order: 2
---

> Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics make possible a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [LINK: Discover] or [LINK: Performance], Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Sentry's application monitoring product collects performance metrics. Performance metrics enable you to gain a better understanding of how users are interacting with your application. By tracking metrics like Latency and Throughput in [LINK: Discover] or [LINK: Performance], Sentry provides you with a fuller, real-time picture of your application's health, such as the occurrence of errors or performance issues.
```

Author: Trying to avoid the words "enable" and "empower" because they're overused. I switched out the phrasing with "Performance metrics provide a better understanding..."

## Apdex

> Apdex is an industry-standard used to track and measure user satisfaction based on the response times in your application. Your Apdex score is a measurement of the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint. This metric provides a standard for you to compare transaction performance, understand which ones may require additional optimization or investigation, and set targets or goals for performance.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Apdex is an industry-standard metric used to track and measure user satisfaction based on response times in your application. Your Apdex score is a measurement of the ratio of satisfactory, tolerable, and frustrated requests in a specific transaction or endpoint. This metric provides a standard for you to compare transaction performance, understand which ones may require additional optimization or investigation, and set targets or goals for performance.
```

- Below are the various components of Apdex and its formula:
    - T = Response time threshold for your target response time
    - Satisfactory = T
    - Tolerable = >T and ≤ 4*T
    - Frustrated = 4*T
    - Apdex = (# of Satisfactory Requests + (# of Tolerable Requests/2)) / (# of Total Requests)

> - Impact/Paindex - a user-weighted performance metric to assess the relative magnitude of your application performance

Reviewer 5: I don't think we've settled on using paindex yet.
